hey everybody thanks for joining me
again at our worship sound my name is
Peter and today I want to show you a
little bit more about how to build a
scale based on a certain note center
that we find in any song or chord
progression in our last video we talked
about how each song we play has these
our ears to find where the tonal center
center or the low to the home record is
evidence so we just use our ears to tell
that is the home known that notice day
for this one so we know that this one is
in the key of error and we can figure
out some things based on now um once we
find out what that note is what that
home note is there are different tricks
in thought presses thought thought
processes we can go through to figure
out how to build the scale on that now
if it starts on a natural it's always
going to be a sharp scale is always
gonna have sharps in the key signature
unless it starts on C which is all
naturals the white keys or if it's on FB
cuz f has one planet
get all the other natural notes their
scales have sharp syntom site as two
sharps is four sharps G a and B are all
sharp scales as well so that leaves
these keys and we could think of this as
being F sharp which would have six
sharps um oricon goes G flat which is
heads which has six flats as well so
after watching these two videos you
should be able to figure out both of
those keys but let's take a flat for
example a flat since it starts on a flat
we know that it has to have flats in it
because the key signature cannot mix
flats and sharps it's either gonna be
one or the other or none as in the case
of C so if it starts on a flat we know
that it has flats and the way we're
going to do is it has a different rule
then we use for sharps if it starts on a
flat we know that we're going to have
all the flats in the order of flats up
to a flat plus one more so in the sharps
video we talked about how the order of
sharps always starts with F then see
then G and we used this saying father
Charles goes down and ends battle FCG
Dae be to remember the order of sharps
and if we flip that around battle ends
and Down Goes Charles father we have the
order of flats be EAD GCF so if we have
a flat we know that we also have to have
B flat and E flat because they come
before a flat in the order flats so if
it starts on a flat we're gonna have
everything up to a flat plus one more so
we're going to be e and a and then we
also have to add D battle ends and down
okay so we're going to have those four
flats in our key signature so now we can
build our scale i'm going to jump down
to this a flat
and scales major scales always have one
kind of a one kind of be one kind of see
you can never have it be flat and addie
in the same scam so we're going to start
on a flat the next node is going to be
some kind of be and we know from our key
signature that it is gonna be B flat so
we're gonna skip Reming flats can't be
natural the next note is C ok the next
note is some kind of deal we know from
our key signature the D is flat
next one is gonna be e and we know
that's flat as well and then F G and
we're back for a full note so again
that's a flat B flat C D flat musleh
there were four flats okay everything
else is natural okay so that's how we
build a scale or a flat and once we know
that that we can figure out things like
this is the one core this is for corn
five chord we can also know that a our
fifth scale degree 1 2 3 4 5 is e flat
and we know the key flats gonna sound
good in a lot of the chords
and it unlocks a lot of that theory that
we've been talking about in other videos
let's do one more example let's take it
down a couple of flats and let's see
what we figure out that our center is B
flat and we can tell it the B flat is
kind of the home note or chord for
whatever song okay so what we can do is
we're gonna have everything in the order
of flats up to be flat plus one more net
beautified is first in the order of
flats so there are no flats that have to
be in order flats for be fun battle ends
and Down Goes Tom's father so B flat is
the first one so we just have to add one
more and then the one mores can be easy
so everything is going to be natural in
this scale except for B flat and even
start on b-flat this throws some kind of
see which is natural d e is flat then
she Hey okay so just two flats on that
one and you know it's all about figuring
out what that home note is and then we
can build a scale from there so again
with flats you just know that home note
you find it in the order of flats and
then you add all the flights up to that
plus one more okay just a verbal example
if we had um let's say D flat we found
out the D flat was the center of our key
we would know that we would have battle
ends and down plus one more g ok so we
build our scale d flat what
flat a flat B flat C D fun everything is
flat in that battle ends and Down Goes
Charles father everything is flat except
for CNN okay so that's how we build a
flat scale and again that unlocks like
the court numbers the scale numbers and
helps us to understand what we're doing
a little bit in music and this is not
just for piano this for guitar this for
any other instrument that's playing
harmonica like you're playing by chords
so I hope this has helped you hope
you'll join me join me at my website our
worship sound calm sign up for the email
list to get updates on what's going on
download my free worship EP drama in and
as well as get connected with some of
the things that we're doing there so our
worship sound calm thanks for joining me
today and I hope you have a good one